Hey there, welcome to the Paws at Data Science Hangout. I'm Libby Herron, and this is a recording
of our weekly community call that happens every Thursday at 12pm US Eastern Time. If
you are not joining us live, you miss out on the amazing chat that's going on. So find
the link in the description where you can add our call to your calendar and come hang
out with the most supportive, friendly, and funny data community you'll ever experience.
Can't wait to see you there. I think we can go ahead and introduce our featured leader
for today, Nikolay Braykov, Manager of Advanced Analytics and Outcomes at Children's Healthcare
of Atlanta. Nikolay, it's so great to have you here today. Could you introduce yourself?
Tell us a little bit about what you do, maybe a little bit about Children's Healthcare
of Atlanta and something you like to do for fun.
Hey everyone, good afternoon. Thanks for the opportunity to be here. So my name is Nikolay.
I manage our data science team here at Children's Healthcare of Atlanta. We are one of the largest
pediatric health systems in the country, the largest in Georgia and one of the largest
in the Southeast. So what my team does, we're part of a bigger data and analytics group,
or we sort of sit alongside data and analytics under the IT part of the organization. And
what my team does, we're officially called the Advanced Analytics Team, but we provide
essentially any kind of data science question that goes, things that go beyond reporting.
And there are, you know, most of our questions or problems revolve around healthcare quality
or kind of clinical and operational questions. We're not a research team. We're very focused
on kind of applied data science. And I'd say there's like three main pillars of what we
do. The traditional kind of advanced analytics data science work is, as I said, anything
that our reporting teams can handle in terms of like something requires more advanced data
visualization, data wrangling it from different sources is needed. And then eventually you
might have some hypothesis testing or some kind of statistical analysis that needs to
get done. So that's where we come in. The other pillar is machine learning and the evaluation
and also the development of custom predictive models. Most of those are around clinical
decision support. And so we partner closely with clinical informaticists. Those are the
folks that can build things in our electronic health record. And the third pillar, this
is a relatively new area, but we also develop custom solutions that might be powered by
LLMs. So if there are any applications that sort of lean on large language models and
do, for example, NLP kind of work, we would develop and support these.
Okay. What about something you like to do for fun?
Oh yeah. The fun part. So I love being outside. Atlanta is a very green city. So I live on
the bike trail. I love going on long bike rides and I've been trying to get into pickleball.
I'm still new to it, but it's addictive. There's no other way of saying it. It's easy
to get into it and it's such a wonderful community. So that's been kind of my newer hobby. But
yeah, I like to stay active and enjoy the outdoors. Unfortunately, this year I'm getting
like allergies for the first time. It's like almost full blown spring here, but I'll make
you the most of it.
I think you are not alone in pickleball. We have some pickleball fans in the chat and
I don't think you're alone in the allergy dread. It's been terrible here in South Texas.
It's been absolutely awful. My husband is dying currently. I'm trying to get him to
take Zyrtec. It's been a struggle. But I wanted to remind everybody that the link to ask questions
in Slido is there. And I am going to ask Nikolai to tell us a little bit about the
tools that he uses and a couple of examples of problems that his team solves and types
of data he sees so that we can ask good questions. So Nikolai, can you talk a little bit about
the tools that your team uses? Because I know that you are a polyglot team and do work in
both R and Python. Can you talk a little bit about all the tools that you use? Do you
use notebooks? Are you working in scripts? Are you deploying things? How does it all
work?
All of the above. And maybe just to give some context on how big is the team, who's on it.
Yeah, that would be great.
So we have three data scientists and one machine learning engineer. One machine learning engineer
actually have an opening for another one. So if folks are interested, get in touch with me.
As far as the tools we use and what we do, so a lot of the origin of the team was more in
biostats. So we're answering questions around statistical hypothesis testing and data
visualization analysis. I think our data scientists were primarily R and R is also my
preferred language. So that's in heavy combination with SQL, just because a lot of times we need to
get data and transform it. And for some of the workloads that we have, it's easier to do that
when we directly interact with databases. So R and SQL for the data analysis, wrangling,
visualization parts. So if we're having a lot of ad hoc questions around something, for example,
we might be asked to evaluate if a certain intervention has worked. So we would do
some kind of observational study, but think of this more as quality improvement. So it's not
exactly your biostats research kind of work, but it's still using a lot of the same tools and
packages in R. So like we love, for example, using GT summary and making bivariable tables.
We do a lot of that work in R Markdown and Quarto. So I've been a big fan of R Markdown
and now Quarto actually for since the start of my career, because it's just so great to have
that type of notebook where you can actually create very polished output, make everything
reproducible. So I'd say that's the basic building block of a lot of what we do,
whether it's data exploration for some bigger project or predictive model, or there's always
a notebook and that notebook tends to be in Quarto these days. So we also develop shiny dashboards for
certain use cases where you need to interact with data. So one example of a project that
was a shiny dashboard, we had a question about clinical effectiveness of our behavioral mental
health programs. So actually we had to build a tool to support a team of scientists that
were looking at clinical effectiveness. Those are like health systems researchers.
And it was a fairly large cohort and also a lot of different ways to
create outcomes for it, filter by different subpopulations. And because again, this is an
observational kind of question or comparing kids who are in our programs versus kids who are not,
we had to do some propensity weighting to actually balance those comparisons. So we
built a shiny dashboard that can do a lot of that analysis kind of end to end of the fly,
like get the data out of our clinical data warehouses and process that. So that for
example, is a script that runs on a schedule, publishes a pin on Positive Connect. Then on
top of that, there's a shiny dashboard that does the kind of cohort visualization, and then also
runs these analysis on the fly so they can get their answers more quickly and then download
output that they can use for their research. So that's one example of the use of shiny.
Again, we wouldn't use shiny for any old dashboard. There's teams that can handle
that, like there's teams that develop in your traditional BI tools like
Click and actually now Power BI. But yeah, shiny is there for these more specialized uses.
And then, so that's all the R side of the house. For Python, I think most of our ML work,
especially when it comes to the deployment evaluation of models, happens in Python. And then
yeah, we used to run Jupyter notebooks, but I think now with Positron and with
with Quarto, I think it's actually become easier to achieve the same kind of very rich
interactive output that you'd get from the things before we would do in R. So yeah, we use notebooks
and then also variously develop our own kind of libraries for the ML kind of work.
And yeah, finally, I think for creating some applications that are more Python-based,
we've been dabbling more in Streamlit for anything that's like a chatbot. I'm actually
interested in trying more of that in shiny, but yeah, because that was a Python-based kind of
product, we opted for Streamlit. So yeah, I mean, to recap, like a lot of data visualization,
a lot of notebooks, everything is source controlled. Things that need to go to stakeholders
go on Connect. Pins are wonderful. I rely on them a lot. And then the other key thing is
getting the data in from a SQL database connection usually.
Okay, perfect. I wanted to hop over to Slido as we have questions coming in and see if
Noor could get us started with her question. We'll ask Noor to unmute and don't forget that
you can read questions before you ask them and upvote any that you like.
Hello, can people hear me?
Yay. Hey, Noor.
Hi. Apologize for the overly verbose nature of this question, but so you're in predictive
AI and particularly in like clinical decision-making and that type of sphere.
And one of the issues with clinical and medicine data is often systemic bias, already in adults,
and now you're also working with pediatric patients. And when AI and ML tools are trained
on bias data, they often recapitulate that same bias. So given that you're in the clinical
decision-making sphere with predictive AI, how are you accounting for that or can you
effectively account for that and so forth? Yeah, that's a great question. We talk about
fairness and bias and kind of responsible AI. There are certain things we can do to at least
measure or be aware of our models performing adequately in all the different subgroups
that we want to compare, like some disadvantaged groups. So the one thing we do whenever we have
a model is when we run our evaluations, we do it by different demographic groups just to make
sure there's that parity in model performance. As far as like quantifying bias and doing something
about it at like the root cause level, we had some projects that were more focused on health equity
and at least kind of surfacing that there are inequities using some more vigorous approach to
measure that. But I'd say as far as like eradicating bias from our data, that's a pretty
difficult challenge. And yeah, the best we do so far is just measuring performance by groups.
Awesome. Thank you, Noor, for your question. I'm going to hop over to Slido again and ask
Russ to hop in. Russ Conti, if you are available to ask your question live, that would be amazing.
And I will put it in the chat for everybody. Okay. Hi, thanks. This sounds like a really
interesting lot of work you're doing. Can you speak to the differences between working with
data about children versus working with data about adults? Yeah, certainly. I mean, I think
just the general difference in pediatrics versus adult medicine is it's more complicated. There
can be a lot more nuances. And for example, if you're looking at creating certain features for
risk prediction, you have to be aware that when, for example, some lab is out of range or something
is considered to be abnormal, it's going to have a lot more different thresholds just because
kids change or they grow. So there's more age stratification goes into our population,
although they have a smaller age range. So that's one kind of obvious challenge with data.
And then in general, just how as far as difficulties in prediction, for example,
no-shows or clinic no-shows, more challenging in pediatrics because the decision to come to
an appointment is not just the child's decision. And so we don't really get to see in our electronic
health record and in our, you know, most of our data is about the child, not the parent or the
family or their environment. So, and then clinically, I think pediatrics can be more
challenging and complex for some things. So for example, some of the critical things that might
happen for somebody that's admitted to a hospital, like deteriorating or decompensating things like
cardiac arrest or sepsis tend to be harder to recognize and move faster than in adults.
So, yeah, I guess these are just some of the challenges I can think of now, but caveat,
I've not really worked with adult data that much. So, yeah.
That is totally okay. All right. We have questions coming into the Slido that I am looking at right
now. Bear with me as I take a look at everything. But I wanted to ask just an anonymous one that
had popped up as well, which was, does your team use SASS at all? And how does that tie
into the open source work? We used to be a SASS shop. I think
maybe it's been over five years since there's no more SASS support in the organization.
And yeah, I'd say a lot of our, at least two of our data scientists, like they were in public
health, they were trained in SASS as well. We have other people in healthcare that are
used to working in SASS, but we've been like, you know, we're not supporting it. And
for better or worse, I'd say I've always been more R and actually Stata was the one software
that I used when I started my career in undergrad. So, yeah, the challenge with enterprise settings
is again, like these licenses do become quite costly and it's hard to justify them if you are
only going to have like a handful of people using it. Right. Absolutely. Well, let's head over to
another question in Slido, which is anonymous, which is, do you use tidy models and tools like
Parsnip? I should. To be fair for a lot of our predictive models, we were out of the R game. So
I've used tidy models and I've used Cared before that. I think it's very powerful, even actually
not just for prediction, but just like statistical inference. If you've got a scale models, tidy
models is great. The problem is there's still kind of a steep learning curve. And then if our
deployments are all happening in Python and all that, then it's sort of better to make the switch
earlier. So, yeah, but I think tidy models is pretty powerful and some other folks in my team
have used tidy models as well. I've used H2O a lot as well for machine learning and kind of
getting started on some kind of quicker initial checks. So, yeah, that's been another tool that
I've enjoyed. Awesome. Thank you so much, anonymous question asker. I would love to hop
over to Hubert's question. Hubert, if you are available to ask that live, that would be great.
And I will put it in the chat for everybody. Yes. Can you hear me? Yes. Okay. I work for the
University of Chicago and my group runs the Pediatric Cancer Data Commons, among other things,
but we deal with EHR data and study data and all that kind of stuff. My first question is,
do you have access to internal LLMs of some flavor that you can use with PHI or sensitive data? We
really don't have that. There is a AI available that is our own University of Chicago AI,
but we don't have an API that you could do sort of, you know, other than chatting with it,
you can't do, you know, any sort of linking it with LLM or anything like that. So, that's one
question. And the other question is a follow-up. Do you pull most of your data from something like
Clarity or do you have various data warehouses based on OMOP or other models that the data gets
pulled from, you know, in a warehouse or lake house or the sort of the, what does the data
landscape look like for you? That's my first question. Yeah. Thanks, Hubert. Great questions.
Yeah. The LLMs, I'd say that's generally challenging healthcare. Like you really can
use a lot of the same technologies you use outside because of concerns over PHI and HIPAA
compliance. So, for us, we do have on our Azure subscription, there is a deployment of
OpenAI models that we can use that is HIPAA compliant. So, that's enabled us to do a lot.
And that's probably been like two-ish years since it happened. But yeah, we, for example,
coding assistants and GitHub Copilot, those are outside of that. So, that was a big deal being
able to use those. We have to take a lot of precautions to make sure PHIs don't leak with
those. But as far as like putting data through LLMs, like we have that ability and that's been,
that's opened up a lot of these doors to do some of those custom LLM-based applications that I
mentioned earlier. And also, yeah, Elmer actually has been a great way to kind of integrate that
with R and even Shiny dashboards. Your other question about data landscape. Yeah. So,
the data warehouses that you mentioned, Clarity and Caboodle, those are basically the,
what Epic, like the biggest EHR vendor and what we use, it's where the data goes for reporting.
So, Clarity is basically the, it's not exactly the data warehouse, but it's where more of the raw
data for reporting goes. And Caboodle is a little bit more groomed and has a star scheme,
it's neater, easier to work with. So, yes, we use both. We also use some of our enterprise
data that comes from systems like Workday. So, those are kind of the main big enterprise
data sources. And they're beasts, like Epic is just an enormous application. There's like,
literally, there's hundreds of thousands of tables in Clarity. So, being able to navigate
those kinds of relational databases is definitely some of the, the specialization that you get from
healthcare data science, at least on the provider side that we're on. And yeah, I think Caboodle
has made life a little bit easier for some of our data pools, but sometimes for more complicated
things where you need to know when something happened and you need to get all the history,
you need to go into the more complex kind of databases. I'll say we have a big, very capable
team of, you know, that does our clinical reporting that are trained in Clarity and Caboodle,
so we can lean on them. But being self-reliant and knowing how to do basic data pools is great.
OMOP is basically a standardized data model that's very great for creating cohorts. So,
Children's does have a lot of our data mapped. And again, that's the special part there is you
have to map your Epic data to use these common data models, otherwise they're,
they stop being common. So, but we, again, OMOP is more of a reporting or more of a research
tool, so we haven't really leaned very heavily on it. Yeah, a lot of times we need something that
needs to happen, needs to have more recent data, and there's already a day lag with how things go
into these data warehouses. With OMOP, it's a little bit longer for us as well, so.
All right, awesome. Hubert, thank you so much for your question, and there were some people in the
chat saying thank you for asking that one because it really hit home for them as well, which I love.
Next, I would love it if Loulou could unmute and ask his question, and for everyone unmuting Loulou,
his name is Jabril in Zoom, I think, if you want to be able to find him.
Oh, I might need help, Libby. That's okay, yeah, let me look. There he is. All right.
Yes, I think, yes, can you hear me now? Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, thanks. Thank you so
much, Nicola, so far. I think my question is mainly based on, you know, the difficulty in
interacting or presenting data science workflow to non-technical people. So, usually, when you
use advanced techniques in your workflow, are there particularly any explainable ML outputs or
data science visualizations that you use to improve stakeholder buying
from the non-technical individuals and clinicians? And is there, like, which of
this project that you've been on do you think has been the most impactful for the organization?
Yeah, thanks for the question. Yes, yes. So, as far as, like, making some of our outputs more
accessible, I'd say, broadly, that's what R is so great for because you can create really powerful
custom data visualization. So, for our ML models, for example, one thing that we've done for model
evaluation is, when a model is developed, there's a lot of, you know, we usually do this in the
notebook, but explaining what your model performance really looks like is something that we've
used Shiny for, and it's been really powerful to actually be able to show. So, here's a classifier.
These are all the features in it. This is how your feature importance looks. So, if we need to select
between different models, that really helps kind of get stakeholder buy-in to be able to show
from all the different things that we've experimented with, we're able to track our
experiments and then show the feature importance and essentially what cohorts and different,
how are these different features constructed. So, yeah, that's more custom data visualization
we can do in Shiny. Also, the other part of, for a classifier, for example, is
these ML models are not the end thing that a user sees. They're just part of a bigger
solution that, in the case of clinical decision support, that goes into the EHR. That's something
that, you know, you can think of it as just another test or just another lab result or
something, right? So, to actually act on this, we need to build things in the EHR, for example, an
alert that uses that prediction. So, to decide when to display an alert, we need to know
what threshold does the predicted risk score have to trigger that alert. So, Shiny has been
great for showing the different tradeoffs. For example, if we show a clinician a precision and
recall curve, we can say, if you choose to implement at this threshold, then your alert
is going to fire this many times. And out of all the times that somebody, for example,
had sepsis, this is how many you would positively be able to detect. So, we can show them what their
sensitivity looks like in their cohort. We can show them what their precision looks like.
And that's been really important for making some implementation decisions, right?
So, yeah, I think our, what we call our model evaluation dashboards have
been very instrumental in getting buy-in and explaining our models.
And then the, I think there was one more question that I'm forgetting now, but
it's okay. I think you answered a lot of them. I think that we can head over to
an anonymous question in Slido, which has risen to the top. Y'all go vote for questions in Slido
because there's so many, we won't be able to get to them all today. Nikolai, there's so many
questions for you in Slido. But yeah, everybody go upvote and thank you so much for all of the
questions that are rolling in. We have an anonymous one that says, clinicians often want a straightforward
answer, but machine learning methods often produce complex results that are challenging
to interpret. So, how do you balance that?
The simplicity. So, I mean, I think having explainable models is very important. So,
being able to actually have something that's interpretable really comes down to,
like, you know, sometimes using a simpler model that is maybe less performant
gives you a lot of that, at least as a good starting point to show
how something is working when we're talking about prediction. And then,
yeah, I mean, I think the other part is also being engaged with your stakeholders. So,
we're fortunate to have, like, a very data-savvy group of clinicians that we work with that
are often partners in these kind of projects and implementations. So, yeah, some of that
translation into clinical audiences and, like, basically, it's very important for us to know
what the workflow is for somebody that's using these tools in the EHR. And we cannot do this
in isolation if we're not interacting with the actual end users.
Yep. I love it. As always, at the Data Science Hangout, the answer is talk to people more.
Get to know them more. Empathize with their needs. Awesome. Thank you. I have another quick
anonymous question, which is, what's your favorite project been so far to work on at
the pediatric hospital? What a great one. I love data visualization. So,
so, I'd say one of my favorites was that behavioral mental health clinical effectiveness
project and creating that dashboard that I was describing where we can sort of do this
clinical effectiveness analysis quickly. Yeah, just because I had a lot of fun visualizing
our cohort. There were a lot of assumptions there on, okay, somebody, you know, clinical
data is complex or the hospital and healthcare visit data is complex. You have a lot of different,
you know, you have a lot of different interactions with patients. So, we had to
create some custom visuals to basically show this is how we define our index visit for this cohort.
This is how all their other visits look like. This is how they meet or don't meet the definitions.
So, creating those custom plots was fun for me. As far as like other projects, I think I'm excited
for some of the new things we're doing with LLMs. So, we have currently a project where we're
building a chart review system tool. So, we're using an LLM where people can, people can bring
their data, bring their cohort, and we really underuse data in notes. So, so far we've said
NLP is out of reach. NLP is too hard. There's quicker things we can do with structured data, but
a lot of times there's a lot of rich information in notes that people try to get out in a structured
way by doing manual chart reviews and putting things in data collection forms. So, we've been
working on a tool that can basically ease that data abstraction burden and give people a first
pass at here is information you can conversationally ask from a note to extract some structured data.
So, so far it's, the reason why I'm saying this is one of my favorite projects is people get
pretty excited about this. No one likes short reviews, so making people's lives easier
has been, it's been satisfying. Well, that's awesome. I think that that might cover
what I remember now is Lulu's other question, which was about your most impactful project.
Oh, yeah. There's another, yeah, there's another tool that we built. Again, this is
more of a shiny application, but so in healthcare quality, a lot of times you want to show whether
you're whether your process is stable. And then if it's not, if there's some kind of special cause
variation or some noise in, in some, some metric that you're looking at over time, you want to
investigate why that's happening. And also if you do an intervention and you're tracking your,
your outcome measures, you want to be able to show that there was a change that occurred.
So looking at that kind of data over time in statistical process control charts is something
that's done a lot in healthcare quality. So for those of you who are statisticians, I don't know,
SPC charts are not really something that we, we focus on a lot. They're, they're widely used in
like manufacturing, for example, but they're also used in healthcare quality improvement. So
we, we created an application that helps people derive those charts.
So we created an application that helps people derive those charts.
And it's more than just simple data visualization. There's a lot of rules to when something is
considered to be a process out of control. So there's various rules about like when,
you know, when you're measuring your process and you derive some, what's called a center line,
what is the average value for, for example, for time to getting antibiotics.
If that average goes up or down, there's different rules that are kind of accepted
to be considered special cause variation. So yeah, Shiny was a really great way to actually
create an application to make these charts and enable people to do their own measurement for
improvement for, for these quality improvement projects. I'd say that's probably one of our most
used dashboards. That's awesome. So yeah, that's SPC charters. Very cool. Well, I,
you know, I'm seeing a trend in our Slido questions. And it is about interpretable
models, interpretability, getting better predictions at the cost of interpretability.
So we had another, another anonymous question about this. And I saw that Arsenis had put a
reply in there. Thanks for Arsenis for sharing your, your experience. I thought I would turn
that one to everybody in the chat as well to sort of talk about and give feedback on
the anonymous question says at my hospital, clinicians usually don't understand the
difference between models for prediction and those for explanation. And they bulk at the
idea that you can often get better predictions at the cost of the interpretability. And they
were wondering what your experience of that phenomenon is the hospital. I know that I've
asked you several interpretable model questions already. But I would love to open that up to you,
Nikolai, and also open that up to everybody in the chat to share your experiences of it,
and maybe some tactics for mediating that. Yeah, I mean, I think explainability is very
important when you're making, you know, critical decisions with these models. So that being said,
like, there's ways to go beyond logistic regressions and make your models explainable.
So, you know, there's the more traditional ways of, of adding explainability to ML models with,
you know, shop plots and things like this. Literally, just put that in the chat shop.
Yeah. So I mean, there's techniques to make to kind of unblack box some of the more complex
models. Yeah. Even deep learning models. But I think it's also just a culture shift to I actually,
my suspicion is that with kind of the advancements in AI, there might be more willingness to embrace
a black box approach, because, you know, even people who build some of the build the LLMs don't
exactly aren't able to trace what the billions of parameters like round up to sometimes, right. So
there is, I think, I think what was true a few years ago with explainability and
opting for simpler models is going to change a little bit. But yeah, I mean, I think the other
part is having a having the kind of governance in place where people can trust that if there is a
tool going in, that is being evaluated, and that, you know, you both have considered the workflow
that people are using. So you're not just thinking that something is useful to predict, because,
you know, you've thought about this in isolation, but you've actually sat down with a clinician
seen what they what they're trying to accomplish and how this algorithm is going to be helpful to
them. And then also having the kind of sufficient guardrails around evaluation and monitoring for
something once it goes live. For any clinical model, we we don't really deploy anything until
it's been in this phase of like silent evaluation. So okay, something would just have to go silently
in the background, and then we would see does it actually work in production, because
things can be tricky to deploy, you might think that it works well when you're training your model
when you're testing, and then yeah, so moving a little bit more carefully and having these processes
in place is critical for buy-in. Awesome. Well, speaking of silently in the background, your audio
just got very, very quiet for us, and I'm not sure why. I'm wondering if you perhaps might have moved
away from your laptop. I forget that I'm using this mic. Yes, there we go. He's back. Okay,
Nikolai's back. Thank you. I didn't want to interrupt you because you were on a roll and
talking about such good stuff. Thank you. We could still hear you on your answer. We just had to like
turn the volume up a little bit. Now we can adjust. Good, okay. Yeah, it's okay. We'll fix it in post.
We probably won't. It's okay. Okay, let's head back over to Slido and see what other questions
we have. We have about 15 minutes left. Thank you, everybody, for your many, many questions in Slido.
There is no way we will get to all of them, just so many. I highly encourage you, if you are in
the Slido, to go look through questions, and there's a little reply button. If you have a
reply for somebody that you would like to add from your own experience, do so there or bring it up in
the chat. You know, before we get a little bit further, I wanted to ask a question that we always
ask on the Hangout, which is about career advice. Do you have a piece of career advice that you
would give your younger self or something you wish that you knew when you were just getting started?
Yeah, I mean, I didn't think that I would end up in data science or technology in general.
I think when I was starting my career in undergrad, I was an econ major. I was interested
in research. I was interested in going more into kind of maybe public policy. And then
the first job I had kind of changed my mind around this, and I became very interested in public
health. And then that led me more to disease ecology, and I was interested in antibiotic
resistance. And then that led me to Atlanta, where I went in grad school for disease ecology.
And again, still the focus was on public health. But yeah, long story short, you don't really know
what you're going to be when you're in school, and you need to be open to your career kind of
evolving as you go along. And mentors are very critical in that. So I think the reason why I
went down all these paths was because I had some inspiring mentors that were both my grad school
advisors, my various bosses that I had through my career. So the other advice is, yeah, be open,
and also don't burn bridges with these people, because they will be critical for a lot of your
next steps. At Children's as well, I actually came here after grad school. I left, and I worked in
other industries and other companies for some time, and then I came back. So
again, maintaining those ties with people that you know are part of your growth and your
development is going to be rewarding later. So yeah, that's kind of the broadest career
advice I can give. No, it's great. I love it. Thank you. Okay, we had a billion questions
pile in, and I'm going to go pick one. We had an anonymous question that I wanted to get in,
because I remember when you attended, as an attendee, Matt Maloney's at City of Hope's
Hangout, that you had said, like, we are also on Epic. We are dealing with a lot of these same
things. So this anonymous question is, are you building models in-house or mostly integrating
vendor solutions like Epic's AI? Because Matt Maloney, I remember, was doing a ton of stuff
where they were building things to integrate with Epic. Are you all doing any of that stuff,
or are you relying on vendor? No, great question. And also, that Hangout was awesome.
It was awesome. I really love having some of these healthcare
discussions, because yeah, I mean, our field is special, but I think all fields are special,
but yeah, but healthcare specifically and vendor models, like, we do both. It's often great to
start with something that's already available to you. So a lot of these models that are out
of the box in Epic are maybe the first pass. In pediatrics, in our case, and also in Matt's case,
and in cancer, like, maybe there just aren't enough that are specific to your population. So
most of the Epic models tend to be on adults, and maybe they've done some stuff for pediatrics. So
we have to build a lot of this on our own. So there's a lot of considerations around,
you know, what are the use cases that you want to pick to develop on your own? Because with a
small team and constrained resources, there's always infinite demand for some of these things.
But yeah, I'd say we do a good blend of trying something that's maybe going to work,
seeing if it does, and then if not, we go and we customize. We also have some
research partnerships with institutions like Georgia Tech or Emory. So there's a kind of a
third outside, or a third way to get stuff in for us, and that's some of these collaborations we have.
All right. I have another question here. This is a spicy one. How do you get buy-in
for ProShiny when there is FreeShiny?
Well, there's no option for FreeShiny for us because we're in an enterprise. So to be able to
actually deploy some of these things, they really need to be on a kind of vetted application that
IS&T supports. So I think just the nature of doing things like, you know, in an institution
at a certain size, you really don't have the option of going with a free open-source version.
And of course, we are using a lot of open-source software and packages, but
the kind of critical parts of the scaffolding around those, like PositConnect has been amazing,
and all the actual Posit products are, you know, they're basically the stack that we
lead on the most for my team. Right. Yeah. It's hard to do everything
by yourself sometimes, and I think that's the thing maybe people in leadership don't always
understand is like, oh, well, there's a lot of like switchboarding behind the scenes to get a
completely free, completely open-source solution implemented at scale in an organization. And like,
that's the benefit of the service stuff. Yeah. And it took a, it always takes some
kind of proof of concept to show people. So having the open-source tools is great to get it
in the door. So it was years ago that we built our first Shiny app, and it was for analyzing
U.S. News World report rankings. Hospitals care a lot about those. So that got leadership attention.
So that's, that was one where like, oh, you know what, we can't really do these in
ClickSense or in like, I think we had SAS Visual Analytics at the time. So
yeah, sometimes you have to make the case for it and put the extra time in, but.
Awesome. Well, I have a question here from Ruby. Ruby, if you are able to ask your question live,
I will highlight it in Slido. There's Ruby. Hey, Ruby.
Hey, I'm actually also at Emory. I'm a postdoc in the Department of Epidemiology.
And so I'm curious, because we don't have that many public health adjacent speakers here,
whether you can speak to the experience of kind of transitioning into a more data science role
from public health, either from your experience or that of your people on your team, and what's
made that kind of easier or what are some of the hurdles that you've encountered? Thanks.
Yeah, that's a great question. I mean, yeah, so many angles to start from, but I think from like
kind of like the quantitative skills, like number one, like if you're in epidemiology,
there's a lot of kind of rigor around working with data and with numbers that directly can
be leveraged in a data science career. Particularly when I started, or sorry, when I moved to,
you know, more from research to data science, there really weren't that many programs that
would formally train you in, like, and people were getting an MIS degree or like Master's
in Information Science and so on. But there was quite a bit of openness to coming from different
fields. And I think for public health, the thinking around like, you know, scientific
thinking and also biostats and epi kind of quantitative rigor lends itself well to the
biggest, I think that's one of the steepest parts of the curve is like learning these tools,
or sorry, learning the methods. As far as like programming, kind of the other big part of data
science is like, can you turn your analyses into something actionable and something that
is repeatable? Again, I think compared to a decade ago, like using tools like Quarta or Markdown
is kind of a basic starting point. And they're great for research, but they also have kind of the
basic premise of making sure your code is reproducible. So just scripting to do statistical
analysis is one thing, making something truly repeatable, both like for replicating your
findings, but also to translate to your other projects is a big part of data science, right?
And then as far as like actually transitioning in terms of culture shift, I think healthcare
was a great place for me at that point, because there is a lot of understanding about, you know,
you're still working with people that are been through the biosciences. So I find it easier to
talk to people that are clinical and if you're coming from public health, because
they have a lot of understanding, respect and similar foundation knowledge.
And then, you know, if you go further, I think the trade off is like, if you go more into
technology, for example, once I moved out of healthcare, I went into more like,
like more the insurance side of things, or it was more payer, you get kind of a deeper
understanding of technology there, because they have different data challenges. So I think that
was important, but you lose some of that connection with people around,
you know, the way of thinking, the kind of shared mental models around,
you know, hypothesis testing, for example, or
just the mission and values appreciation as well. But you learn a lot of other things.
Always a trade off.
Mm hmm. Yeah. And the other part I would say, LLMs have made it much easier with coding also
to create production grade code, or maybe not quite production grade code, but to cross that
barrier into, I don't know how to program. So maybe that looks very different now than
for someone making that call like 10 years ago to go into data science.
It's a different world now. Ruby, that was such a great question. Thank you for asking that.
So we have about four minutes left. I want to call out in the chat, we have two Russes,
not one, two Russes talking about how wonderful children's healthcare of Atlanta is. So just
letting you know that there's love happening in the chat. And then let's hop back over to Slido
to ask our most popular and upvoted question, if we can, in three minutes. This is a fraught
question, y'all. Why do you tend to favor Python over R for deploying models?
Yeah. So one of the reasons is to deploy some of the stuff in Epic, it has to be in Python.
There's just no supported R runtime. So the other reason is, you know, I think broadly
there's a lot of, like, tools out there that are maybe offer better support for Python.
Like MLflow being one example. MLflow is a tool to log your experiments and track them.
They do have an R API, but the Python one is always a step ahead. So for a lot of the engineering
work, I mean, talent is also another consideration. They're just more in Python to draw from.
And some of that hurts me because I personally love doing the data wrangling and analysis and
visualization in R. But yeah. I mean, I also I think you can do things in any language and you
have to just have a team that is enabled to do their best in both. Or in whatever works for them.
So for us, it happens to be Python for the ML work.
Awesome. Well, thank you so much. We have three minutes left. Maybe we can pop one more question
in there. And it is from Noor, but I'm going to read it in the interest of time. How has the
rise of agentic AI coding such as Cloud Code played into your day-to-day workflow, if at all?
Short answer has been more limited in part because we can't really a lot of our environment when it
comes to data that's loaded. It can be sensitive. So we've been pretty careful with how we use
coding assistance. Broadly, though, coding assistance, like code completion and just
being able to ask questions in our HIPAA compliant instances has been a huge productivity boost.
But the agentic coding where we'll just do more things with your code is something we're
just beginning to tap into. I don't think you're alone in that. I think
that there are lots and lots of organizations who are working with sensitive data who are still
navigating how agentic coding works with all kinds of private info and sensitive info.
Well, thank you so much, Nikolai. This was so much fun. I will shout out Noor. Thank you so much for
giving resources on SHAP and LIME in the chat for everybody today. We talked a lot about SHAP
and interpretability in the chat. Shout out to Arsenis for the very cool Positron t-shirts.
Thank you, everyone, for asking such amazing questions. I will make sure that Nikolai gets
this list of unanswered questions. I'm going to send him the Slido so he can look at them.
Nikolai, no, like, you know, you don't have to go in and answer all of them or anything. But just
in case you're wondering what you're missing out on and have some FOMO, everybody, say thank you
to Nikolai in the chat. We have had such a good time talking with you today. I hope that you will
enjoy the week off next week while we were in California. Don't forget, no hangout next week.
But do get with Isabella if you would like to talk about getting together in person in the
Chicagoland area, okay? Thank you so much.
Livia, I wanted to share just real quickly to remind people about the Glimpse newsletter,
but also to give a shout out to Isabella because she's the new editor of the monthly Glimpse
newsletter. And so there's a lot of awesome updates on packages, Posit.ai, and so much in
that. So I just want to make sure I shared it in the chat.
Awesome. Yay, Isabella. We love Isabella. We stan Isabella. We have so many thank yous
coming in in the chat here. Zach says, sorry, not sorry for asking you so many questions.
I'll get those to you. All right, everybody.
And I see just a few questions about, is there a way to email or save the chat if you're on mobile?
If anybody wants it and is on mobile, let us know in the chat and we could send it to you
too if you can't get it.
If you're on the Discord server, head over to the Data Science Hangout channel
and we can pop it there as a text file as well, okay?
Perfect.
Thank you, everybody. If you want to save the chat and you're on your desktop, top right hand
corner, there are three dots that you can click and you can save the chat.
All right, everybody. We'll see you in two weeks. Have a wonderful weekend. Bye.